(O'Neill) Yeah. Kasuf,
about this voice that spoke to you...
Yes. It spoke the name of my daughter,
may she rest in peace.
I'm not the only one who heard it. Many
fear it means that the gods are returning.
I thought we'd convinced you and your
people that the Goa'ulds were not gods.
I said "many". Not "I".
But it is easy to understand. In the days
of Ra, when he returned from a journey,...
- ..a storm would blow through the desert.
- It's just wind. Wind happens.
- The wind blew out of an active Stargate.
- And formed a sandstorm.
Don't forget it said the name "Sha're".
It's not like it's
a burning bush or anything.
- I've seen many bushes burn.
- I suppose you have.
It's not far now.
Here.
- There's nothing here.
- Nice... Iight breeze.
(Kasuf) This is where I heard the voice.
I'm getting a build-up
of static electricity, sir.
(disembodied voice) Daniel. Daniel.
- Anybody else just hear that?
- I think so.
Look!
Now that's impressive!
Daniel.
Daniel!
- Try to keep it in Kansas, huh?
- I was just, uh...
I'm Daniel! Who's calling?
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
I am Shifu. I am Harsesis.
- Well, I think that he is the Harsesis.
- How is that possible?
I'm not sure.
He says he grew like the weeds.
Apophis sired the child
to be his next host.
It is possible he used Goa'uld technology
to make the boy's body mature quickly.
We know that's possible.
What of the knowledge passed on
to him by Amaunet and Apophis?
He says Oma taught him to forget.
Oma?
The alien we encountered on Kheb.
Mother Nature.
Guess that explains the tornado.
Shifu says he came here
to learn more about his mother.
- Shifu?
- His name. It means "Light".
We should have Dr Fraiser
take a look at him.
If he was altered,
he could still be growing quickly.
- Is it wise to bring him back?
- I don't think he's a danger.
What about his stepmom?
She comin' along?
He says that ultimately
a man travels his chosen path alone.
Smart kid.
Get a message to Hammond.
Let him know who we're bringin'.
Shifu, this is General Hammond.
He's the leader of this facility.
- Welcome to Earth.
- A spark lights a flame,...
..but the candle will only
burn as long as the wick.
If I may, sir. I think what he means is...
..the wick is the centre of the candle,...
..and ostensibly a great leader,
like yourself,...
..is essential to the... whole ball of wax.
Basically, what it means is that it's always
better to have a big, long wick. Right?
Don't look at me.
This way.
It's right, though? Right?
OK.
Now, I'm going to take a little bit
of your blood with that needle.
Will you return it to me
when you are done?
I'm afraid I can't.
I have to do some tests on it, and then
it just won't be very good after that.
Leaves fall from the tree once a year.
The tree still grows strong and proud.
Go ahead.
OK.
- Doctor?
- I found traces of the nanite technology...
..that once prematurely aged
Colonel O'Neill.
I've had them analysed by some of
the foremost experts in the field,...
..and they say that
they appear to be inactive.
So they shut themselves off already?
It's possible he's reached
the pre-programmed age.
Or Oma figured out a way to stop it.
Either way we can assume he's in
no immediate physical danger.
What about the information this boy
apparently knows? What can he tell us?
He is born with the genetic memory
of all the Goa'uld.
So the kid should know everything
Apophis knew when he...
Fathered the boy.
That.
That must be an awfully big burden
for a young child to carry.
That is why all Goa'uld are born evil.
And why a benevolent being like Oma
would help him bury those memories,...
..so he could lead a normal life.
Sir, we've received word from the Tok'ra.
- Did we really have to call them?
- (Hammond) We have a treaty with them.
Specifically mentioned is the exchange
of all potential sources of information...
..pertaining to the Goa'uld.
They can use the memory-recall device
to extract information from Shifu...
- ..without harming him physically.
- But what about mentally?
What about emotionally? I mean, think
about what we'd be exposing him to.
We'd be flooding his mind with
the thoughts of a thousand Hitlers.
One of whom happened to put a...
snake in the head of his mother.
I know this is about protecting Earth
and eliminating the Goa'uld, but...
It seems to me the boy is fairly wise.
Well beyond his years, in fact.
Isn't it possible he might comprehend
the situation if you explained it to him?
Well, I guess so,
but I doubt he'd be willing to remember.
And even if he is, how can we ask him to?
Well, if he forgot once,
maybe he could forget again.
She spoke to you through
the Goa'uld hand device?
Yes.
She was strong.
In those moments, as Amaunet tried
to kill me, it felt like I lived a lifetime.
- Like a dream.
- Yes.
- Dreams teach.
- Sometimes.
In this one I got to say goodbye, and your
mother told me how important you were.
Oma teaches: the true nature of a man...
..is decided in the battle
between his conscious mind...
..and the desires of his subconscious.
Oma teaches: the evil in my
subconscious is too strong to resist.
The only way to win is to deny it battle.
Yeah...
You see, the thing is... we can't deny
the battle against the Goa'uld for ever.
The information contained within your
buried memories could really help us.
You have chosen a path that leads to me
because of this.
Yes.
You must release your burden before
you will find your own way again.
Yeah. Someone else once said that to me.
Thing is... this is my way.
I chose this path
to honour Sha're's strength.
And ultimately it isn't just about me...
..or you, for that matter.
I understand.
The, uh... Tok'ra have a way to help you
remember only certain things.
How Goa'uld technology works,
their weaknesses.
And then afterwards maybe
Oma can help you forget again.
If the instrument is broken,
the music will be sour.
The music does not play the musician.
- Normally there is truth in that.
- Really?
Good.
Because I really didn't have any idea
what I was talking about there.
All I know is this is very important,
or I wouldn't ask.
Colonel? He's awake.
- What happened?
- I was going to ask you the same thing.
You were talking to the boy,
then you suddenly collapsed.
Hey! How you feelin'?
Fine. I'm, uh...
I'm fine.
Uh... Listen.
What happened with the kid in there?
I asked him for something.
Anything that could help us
fight the Goa'uld.
- Yeah?
- And I think he gave it to me.
These are the long-range sensors.
- I don't know what to ask first.
- The translation may be a little off.
Everything in my head
is actually in Goa'uld.
- Where does it get its power from?
- Liquid naqahdah fuel cell, here.
- Liquid naqahdah?
- Actually it's heavy liquid naqahdah,...
..but don't ask me what makes it heavy.
At least not yet.
Daniel, this...
You OK?
Yeah. It's just that, um... strange things
just keep flying into my mind.
- I'm sorry. What were you saying?
- Just that this is unbelievable.
I know.
- What is it?
- I guess you could call it a satellite, sir.
According to Daniel, it would be capable
of detecting approaching Goa'uld ships...
..thousands of light years away.
Its weapons could penetrate
Goa'uld shield technology...
..and destroy mother ships.
Basically, sir, it's the basis of
the perfect anti-Goa'uld defence system.
Of course, we'd need to build a network
of them and launch them into orbit.
- Can we do that?
- Well, this is an entirely new technology.
We'd need to bring in outside help.
A lot of it. Engineers, physicists...
But ultimately it means
we don't have to involve the Tok'ra.
- Why not?
- Now the Goa'uld think we're no threat.
If it gets out that we're
at this level of technology,...
..we couldn't build
this system fast enough.
You think the Tok'ra would betray us?
Maybe not intentionally, but they've
had problems with Goa'uld spies before.
I don't think it's worth the risk.
Not when we can do this without them.
I'll take that into consideration.
What about the boy?
He doesn't have to remember now.
He's given me the knowledge.
- How he did that is what concerns me.
- He's no danger, sir.
Still, as long as he's here,
he should be kept under close guard.
I'll talk to the Pentagon about bringing in
more personnel to help you out.
- Daniel Jackson.
- Teal'c.
I was unable to complete my kelno'reem.
What is of such importance that I should
be summoned here immediately?
Um...
What does this mean?
I believe the closest translation
would be subatomic energy particles.
That's what I thought. Thank you.
That's it. You can go back
to whatever you were doing.
It'll require the resources
of the entire SGC...
..to focus on the retrieval
of raw naqahdah.
- If we ask the Tok'ra...
- Major Davis, you've prepared a budget?
The Pentagon has budgeted
the satellite network at $80 billion.
Estimated time of completion: two years.
- That's unacceptable.
- Well, if we involve the Russians...
No.
- I'm sorry?
- I said no.
The Russian government has agreed
to stop using their Stargate...
..if we share all information
gathered by the SGC.
- We have to tell them...
- No, we don't.
- But...
- It's OK. I can render their gate inactive.
- You can?
- That's not the point.
The point is we don't know if
the Russians are trading those secrets.
This mustn't get screwed up
by petty Earth politics.
We're protecting this entire planet
from Goa'uld occupation.
I imagine that several of the so-called
petty nations of this planet...
..will be very curious when we launch
satellite weapons two years from now.
- One year from now.
- Impossible. It would double the cost.
Then it's not impossible, is it?
Most of the work will be done
by the private sector,...
..so there'll be a strategic division
of labour in order to maintain security.
- Major Davis, could you also see to this?
- What is this?
A few personal requirements
I'm sure the Pentagon will provide,...
..given the nature
of my continued contributions.
Please see that it gets approved
as soon as possible.
Gentlemen.
Personal requirements.
Hey! What's goin' on?
- What are you doin'?
- I know how this works now,...
..but you need naqahdah in your blood
or you can't make it do anything.
Have you considered that
maybe that's a good thing?
- Something on your mind?
- Your behaviour, as a matter of fact.
What about it?
Well, for starters, who gave you the
authority to give orders around here?
Actually, the Pentagon.
Look, maybe I haven't been patient lately,
but I'm just doing what has to be done.
I have the knowledge.
I have to make sure it gets used properly.
I can elevate us to the point
of wiping out the Goa'uld...
..or I can watch it all go to waste.
You're under a lot of pressure.
I understand.
I recommended you to oversee
the naqahdah retrieval.
Oh, yeah,
thank you very much, by the way.
I can either accept the position or retire.
Why aren't you behind me on all this?
I'm finally taking your position.
Let's... Iet's build weapons.
Let's... Iet's kick some Goa'uld ass!
Because it's me saying it,
I'm suddenly a bad guy?
Where's Teal'c?
He's on a mission.
- What mission?
- The one I sent him on.
- When's he gonna be back?
- When he's done.
Jack...
I've got a lot of work to do.
And so do you. So, please... help me...
..or leave.
(distorted groaning)
Please, I beg you, have mercy.
(car draws up)
Morning, Dr Jackson.
The chairman of the Joint Chiefs
is waiting for your 0900 briefing.
You also have a message from NASA
about the AG's disbursement mechanism.
- Are they on schedule yet?
- No.
- Unbelievable.
- And Major Carter is here to see you.
Send her away. And find out
why she still has a valid security pass.
- Right away, Dr Jackson.
- Good morning, Dr Jackson.
Morning, sir.
What can I make for you
this morning, Dr Jackson?
- I'm not hungry.
- Of course.
Breakfast is the most
important meal of the day.
- Oma teach you that?
- Television.
Glad I've been such a positive influence.
- Daniel!
- I'm sorry, Dr Jackson. She insisted.
It's OK.
You can't seriously think
you'll get away with this?
- What are you talking about, Sam?
- What you're doing. What you've planned.
That's why you had me removed from
the project. You knew I'd figure it out.
I relieved you of your responsibilities
because you were starting to crack.
You seem to have lost all perspective.
Quite frankly,
I think your jealousy got the best of you.
Jealousy? I'll tell you why it's hard
to maintain perspective, Daniel.
Strategic division of labour.
All in an effort to keep anyone
from seeing the big picture.
What exactly have you figured out, Sam?
You know damn well
what I'm talking about.
- What have you done to him?
- You leave him out of this.
- Can't you see what you've become?
- I didn't change, Sam. You did.
You can't stop me telling people
what's going on.
They'll listen.
You'll never get away with this!
Is she insane?
Sir, thank you for coming.
- What are you doin', Carter?
- I'm trying to do what's right.
I have talked to everyone I know.
No one's answering my calls, responding
to my e-mails, even my letters.
Because they think you're nuts.
What do you think?
This is Daniel. Sometimes he can be
a little... odd. He can get carried away.
- But he's not gonna jeopardise the planet.
- I'm not so sure, sir.
- A lot of very smart people believe in this.
- He's got them brainwashed.
What about Teal'c?
You don't still blame Daniel for that?
I couldn't prove anything. Can you?
No.
I just have my opinion. But that
used to be worth something to you.
Carter, you helped Daniel
create these weapons.
- I know.
- Well, what do you expect me to do?
Talk to him.
Sir, you have to try.
Somebody has to stop him
before it's too late.
Jack.
Nice to see you.
You too. It's been a while, huh?
I love the place.
Love what you've done with it.
- I'm sorry I haven't kept in touch.
- You've been busy.
Well, we couldn't have done
any of this without you.
- I should have been more appreciative.
- The fruit basket was nice.
Can't be a coincidence you showed up
here the day of the launch.
- Is that today?
- Yeah. That's supposed to be top-secret.
Who knew?
- You wanna stay and watch?
- Got a big screen?
Come here.
- Why?
- You'll see.
What?
Elevators are such a pain in the ass.
(man) Tertiary systems are on line.
(woman)
Activate all CC function software.
What do you think?
(woman) Commence calibration of
primary sensor arrays in five, four...
It's cool. It's kinda like Vegas.
We've got three to one odds
on the launch going without a hitch.
- I'll take some of that action.
- Put Colonel O'Neill down for a hundred.
- Got it.
- Dollars, right?
I'm glad you're here. After what happened
to Teal'c, I thought I'd never see you.
Oh, ancient history.
Besides, I didn't want to miss
watching you save the world.
Yeah. Actually,
Sam thinks I'm trying to take it over.
- Oh, how arch.
- Yeah.
- So you threw her in jail, huh?
- She was getting dangerous.
You think the military didn't make sure
I couldn't just control everything?
So... what is all this?
Basically, a big-screen TV. So we can
watch and... fix things if it goes wrong.
Dr Jackson, the chairman of
the Joint Chiefs is on channel one.
Congratulations, DrJackson.
We've all worked very hard for this day.
Thank you, and congratulations to you.
We're a go forlaunch.
Commencing 20-second countdown.
All systems are go. The clock is running.
We've got 24 delivery systems launching.
Each one is carrying 12 AG-3's
that will disburse once they reach orbit.
Five... four...
..three... two...
..one.
Ignition.
We have liftoff.
Switching to disbursement
tracking system.
- Disbursement in progress.
- AG monitoring system coming on line.
All systems are functioning.
The network is in place.
That's it.
Pay the winners.
You sure? It's, uh... $2,000 a bottle.
- No, thanks.
- Come on, Jack.
- You're gonna be an international hero.
- What do you mean?
Well, now that we can defend ourselves
against the Goa'uld,...
..the president is gonna make the
Stargate's existence public knowledge.
Dr Jackson...
I'm Amy Jenson, live on Capitol Hill. The
president has postponed his address...
..amid speculation about
an international crisis...
..over the top-secret launch ofa new
satellite communications network.
No statement from the White House yet,
but we assume one is forthcoming.
- What's going on?
- The Russians have gone on high alert.
The Chinese are following suit.
The Russians are repositioning
one oftheiranti-satellite weapons.
- They're gonna try and take out an AG-3.
- Did they respond to the statement?
Theirparliament considers the secret
development ofthis alien technology...
..to be a direct violation ofagreements...
..to share all information garnered
through the Stargate programme.
Unless control ofthis system
is relinquished immediately,...
..it will be considered
an act ofaggression...
..and will be responded to as such.
- That's pretty much what we expected.
- Yes.
My advice to the president would be
we have to demonstrate what we can do.
I have suggested that to him already,
and the president agrees.
Receiving authorisation
to target Russian satellite.
We have target lock. System is firing.
Target has been eliminated.
Very effective.
Everyone here is quite impressed.
Let's hope the Russians are.
We predicted they would launch
more anti-satellite weapons.
That's exactly what they're doing.
I'm sure they're moving rockets
into position as we speak.
- And your next step?
- We'll prepare a proportional response.
I'm recommending
we take out theirlaunch site.
Well, this is all leading to
a full-scale nuclear attack, isn't it?
Unless we comply with their demands,
yes. That would be a high probability.
Shouldn't we just nip this in the bud?
Given ourability to defend ourselves,
we don't see the need tojump the gun.
The president is rethinking ourposition
on unilateral control ofthe system.
I see.
- What are you doing?
- The president is failing to overcome...
..a lack of necessary leadership abilities.
So I'm preventing a global nuclear war.
You shouldn't be able to do this.
You can't do this.
I've already done this. This bunker is well
protected. Don't think about attacking.
DrJackson!
I don't know about the rest of you,
but I've had enough of that guy.
Daniel, what are you doing?
Proportional response makes sense when
the field is even. We have an advantage.
The problem is the other side
just doesn't realise how wide the gap is.
- What they really need is a visual aid.
- AG system targeting Moscow.
- Daniel.
- Don't worry.
There's no threat of residual radiation.
It's quick and clean.
Like cutting your enemy's heart out
with a scalpel.
Didn't you think it was a little strange you
got through security with a loaded gun?
A little.
You never were that bright.
No.
Daniel,
think about one thing before you do this.
We never proved that kid was a Harsesis.
- What are you talking about?
- Everything he put in your head.
The Goa'uld have used
mind control before.
You think this is a Goa'uld plot
to get me to destroy the world?
We've seen 'em use kids too.
Use Shifu to put stuff in my head
in order to get me to build the weapons,...
- ..only to eventually turn them on Earth?
- It's possible.
There's only one flaw in that theory.
You're assuming this is not
what I wanted all along.
Don't. Don't.
System is firing.
Target has been eliminated.
- Still nothin'?
- No.
There's nothing physically wrong
with him. Nothing I can find.
- Except for the fact that he's in a coma.
- It's not really a coma.
He still has rapid eye movement.
The fact is...
he may not be the Harsesis at all.
Are you saying this could be
some sort of Goa'uld trick?
As we have seen, the Goa'uld are not
above using human children as weapons.
Well, all Shifu would say
is that he is teaching Daniel.
So, what do we do?
As you know, the Zatarc detector's
original purpose was to detect deception.
We could at least determine whether
the boy is actually Harsesis,...
- ..and maybe what he did to Dr Jackson.
- Basically a lie detector test.
- No harm would come to him.
- And what?
Just hope he doesn't explode
in the meantime?
Hope he really is who he says he is.
And maybe help Dr Jackson.
It's just a precaution. I had this done
to me once, and I had to wear them too.
The mind is always free.
This will hurt a little.
After that I promise you will feel no pain.
- I will merely ask you some questions.
- Questions are plentiful. Answers are few.
I'll try and keep it simple. Ready?
Direct your vision here.
First question. What is your name?
Shifu.
- Are you Harsesis?
- I am many things.
Do you possess the genetic knowledge
passed on to you by Apophis?
Yes.
What did you do to Daniel?
Dreams sometimes teach.
I am teaching him.
Teaching him what?
That the true nature of a man...
..is determined in the battle between his
conscious mind and his subconscious.
And that the evil in my subconscious
is too strong to resist.
The only way to win is to deny it battle.
As Oma teaches.
He woke up a few minutes ago.
One of these days I'm gonna figure out
if she's worth listening to.
- What happened?
- I was having a dream.
- About what?
- That's not really important.
The... important thing is...
it's time I chose a new path.
And it is time for me to continue on mine.
- Wait a minute. If he really is Harsesis...
- He is.
..we can still extract
valuable information from him.
No, you can't.
- I don't understand.
- I know.
Thank you for telling me of my mother.
- She would have very proud of you.
- Of you as well.
Will I see you again?
All roads eventually lead to the great path.
Eventually.
Many cross on the way.
What's going on?
We're not just gonna let him leave.
I don't think we have a choice.
(alarm)
General, order all personnel to stand
down and get the heck outta the way.
- Are you sure, Colonel?
- The alternative might not be so pretty.
What am I supposed to say?
All personnel, this is General Hammond.
A... glowing energy being...
..is headed forlevel 28. We believe
it's heading for the gate room.
Loweryour weapons and
do not attempt to intercept it.
The gate just opened, sir.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org